What are the different kinds of SSRS Reports?
Reports can be categorized into operational and analytical reports. 
The distinction is based on the source of data and level of analysis facilitated by any particular report. 
Operational reports are based on OLTP sources and are static reports and Analytical reports are based on OLAP sources and generally facilitate drill-down and drill-through for analysis. 
Technically, SSRS reports can be categorized into parameterized, linked, snapshot, cached, etc...

What are parameterized reports? 
What are cascading parameters in SSRS reports?
Reports that accept parameters from users to fetch and report data conditionally, are known as parameterized reports. 
When you have multiple parameters in a report and values of different parameters are dependent and populated dynamically based on the value of parent parameters, it's known as a cascading parameter.

How would you go about developing a SSRS report?
- General development methodology for a SSRS report is to start by creating a data source. 
- Based on the data source create one or multiple datasets as needed for parameters and the body of the report. 
- Add required controls from the toolbox which would act as a container for the fields in the dataset. 
- Format the controls added to the report body.  
- Verify and validate the report and finally deploy the report.

What is a dataset ?
what are the different types of datasets?
A dataset is similar to a query definition, which is executed when the report is executed. 
Datasets are of two types: Shared and Embedded. 
An embedded dataset is private to the report in which it exists and shared datasets can be shared across reports.


Would you store your query in a SSRS report or a Database server? State the reason why.
Storing SQL queries directly in text format in the dataset, should be avoided. 
Ideally it should be stored in a stored procedure in the database server. 
The benefit is that the SQL would be in a compiled format in a SP and brings all the benefits of using an SP compared to using an ad-hoc query from the report.

What is Tablix?
A Tablix can be seen as a control with combined capabilities of a table and a matrix, which facilitates asymmetric and flexible, row and column level, static and dynamic groupings.

How would you access SSRS reports deployed on report server?
Reports Manager is the most straight-forward way to access SSRS reports deployed on report server. 
Apart from executing the reports, it is the main administration console for SSRS server to manage reports.

Have you used the Report Viewer control / web part? 
What are the limitations?
The report viewer control / web part is the basic control to integrate SSRS reports with external applications. 
Using these interface applications can link and display SSRS reports within the application. 
The parameters toolbar in these controls have a limited programmable interface to decorate and blend it with the theme of the application.

Which is the latest version of SSRS and what are the new enhancements?
SSRS 2008 R2 is the latest RTM version of SSRS. 
Rich data visualizations, better programming functions for lookup and aggregation, improved performance and better control over exported data are some of the major enhancements.

What is Report Builder?
Report Builder is an ad-hoc report authoring tool primarily targeted to be used by business analysts to facilitate self-service report authoring. 
Report Builder 3.0 is the latest version available as of date.

How would you deploy SSRS Reports using out-of-box functionality and how can you automate SSRS report deployment?
Business Intelligence Development Studio is generally used to deploy SSRS reports. 
There is no out-of-box support in SSRS to automate reports deployment, but free third-party products like RSScripter can be used for this.

**What is drill-down and drill-through in SSRS?**
Drill-down is a mechanism of decomposing summarized information to a detailed level. 
Drill-through is a mechanism of decomposing the problem by drilling information generally using more than one report.

Question: What does rdl stand for?
Answer: Report Definition Language

Question: How to deploy an SSRS Report?
Answer: Configure project properties (for multiple environments) and deploy from bids, upload manually or use rs.exe for command line deployment.

Question: What is Report Manager?
Answer: Web based tool that allows to access and run reports.

Question: What is Report Builder?
Answer: Report Builder is a self-service tool for end users.
Question: What permission do you need to give to users to enable them to use Report Builder?
Answer: "Report Builder" role and "system user". Report builder should also be enable in report server properties.
Question: What do you need to restore report server database on another machine?
Answer: SSRS Encryption key
Question: Can you create subscription using windows authentication?
Answer: No.
Question: What caching options do you have for reports on report server?
Answer: Do no cache, expiry cache after x minute, on schedule.
Question: How to find slow running reports?
Answer: Using ReportServer database (default name) query ExecutionLogStorage table. There are 3 fields related to performance: TimeDataRetrieval, TimeProcessing and TimeRendering.
Question: How can you make calendar available in report parameter?
Answer: Set parameter data type to date.
Question: How to pass multi-valued parameter to stored procedure in dataset?
Answer: Join function in SSRS and split function in T-SQL
Question: Which functions are used to pass parameter to MDX query?
Answer: StrToMember and StrToSet
Question: How to create "dependant" parameter "Make, Model, Year"
Answer: They need to be in correct order, and previous parameter should filter next parameter dataset. For instance Model dataset should be filtered using Make parameter
Question: How to create "alternate row colour"?
Answer: use RowNumber and Mod function OR visit our tutorial.
Question: How to create percentile function?
Answer: Custom code is required. Visit our tutorial for more details.
Question: How to create median function?
Answer: Custom code is required. Visit our tutorial for more details.
Question: How to make conditional sum in SSRS?
Answer: IIF condition true then SUM else nothing. Visit our tutorial for more details
Question: How to find a value in another dataset based on current dataset field (SSRS 2008 R2)?
Answer: Use lookup function.
Question: How to change parameter value inside the report?
Answer: Set action. "Jump to itself" and pass different value for the parameter.
Question: How to identify current user in SSRS Report?
Answer: User!UserID
